r
r
l
r
i

χ s 2. For why shouldI not rejoioe 6to have resoued you,
⁴ your wives, aud your children from slaughter, aud the
Vestal virgins from bitter outrage, even if the immortal
gods should will 6that I am to suffer all pains aud hard·
ships, anderen death itself? Wherefore 1t ⁷belongs to

r

ron warrrmv rurusmrrorv. 43

nable² defense.' 2. My little soni will have proteotiou

enough, if you will remember that he is my‘son. 3,Ι „J

have preserved the dignity of the state at my own pe·
euliarl risk. 4. In return ior the things that Ι have set
aside on your aooouut, I ask nothing but⁶ protectior for
my sou. 5. Since this is 80, eonsoript fathers decide
⁷with oare and ⁷with vigor ⁸ou what eoneerns the safety
of the republio. 6. As long as Ι live,l I will maintain
whatever⁹ you deside upon, and ¹⁰by my own efforts will
oarry into effeot your deorees. 7. You have a consul who
will ohey your deerees 8. I oommeud to you the tem·
ples aud shrines of the gods, whioh³ will have protection
enough, if you llmake your deoisiou with care and with
vrgor.

FOR' WRITTEN TRANSLATION.

..0-

’ cunrrnns r.-1V.

60. 1. ¹Conseript fathers, you know that Ι am never
free from the danger of death either² in the Forum, or²
iu the senate-house, 0r² in my own home, or² even in this
seat of honor; but yet, whatever late awaits3 me, I shall
endure it with equanimity,⁴ provided that by my efforts
safety is seoured to you and to the Roman people.

 

