ros onan rnawsnarrorr. 49 -

favorable privileges and treatyrights. 3. He was worthy
through his own merite ²t0 be enrolled as¹ ³a citizen of
Heraclea. 4. Since he declared his intention to the prae·
tor within sixty days, he was enrolled. 5. Ι have spoken
of ⁴n0thing but his domicile in Italy. 6. Lucullus did
not think, but he knew, that Archias was enrolled at
Heraclea. 7. Can you deny that ambassadors have come
‘from Heraclea on account of this trial? 8. ⁶Ererybcdy
knows that the public records were burned in⁵ the Italian
war. 9. Since we cannot hare the testimony of the
recorda, it is ridiculosis to ask for it. 10. Many years
'before the burning of the registry at Heraclea, he had
been enrolled at Rome. 11. Ordo you not demand the
records? Nay, rather, you ask for ⁴n0thing but the
records. 12. Yon do not think, but you know, that they
are wont to be tempered with.

⁴ GHAPTER V.

67. 1. All confidence in the records was destroyed, v

because they were kept carelessly. 2. Gabinius was not
troubled at the erasure of names. 3. In these records,
then, you see the erasure of a single name. 4. ¹What
reason is there for our having doubts· about the erasure,
especially since Metellus was 2εο careful that he went
to the praetor and said that he had found onds-¹ '5. Many
ordinary men are 4possessed of no skill, while stage-
perforrners enjoy⁴ the highest reputation ior genius.
6.·⁶What reason is there why the Neapolitana should
bestow citizenship on ordinary men? 7. Ι have always
⁶wished to be a Neapolitan. 8. He did not use the rec
ords of the Neapolitans, because he always 6wished

&a

 

